assignment two: short stories

Start with iconic first sentences from books and replace the names with those from one hundred Years of solitude. Craft a short story from there.
At the end, rewrite the first sentence to match the story.

inspired by the catchy first lines of so many novels I’ve read that are a whole story
in and of themselves; inspired by Hemingway’s baby shoes short story; inspired by a
fiction prompt my friend mentioned at Tealuxe the other day

Update. It feels like it's took me 100 hundred of solitude to generate these 100 short stories.

arrange the 100 short stories in a large poster format in the formation of a tree with the ghost of Jose Arcardio Buendia tied to the tree

I go through and replace the proper nouns of the sentences with names from the name list of 100 years of solitude; I tried to keep
pronouns consistent with the pronouns from the book, but there is no nltk feature that identifys masculine/feminine/neutral pronouns so I rolled with it as is. Sometimes it's nonsensible, Sometimes delightful:

"Bruno Crespi, light of my life, fire of my loins."

"It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Lorenzo Gavilan, it was the season of Teofilo Vargas, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair."

"Call me Melquiades."

Can you recongize the parent books these sentences spawn from?

more on the inspiration for the project:

When I read One Hundred Years of solitude, it became apparent to me that I had somewhere along the line lost the ability to see color, and reading this book punched the color back into me.

That first sentence. "Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aureliano Buendía was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice." That first sentence was something unlike anything I'd ever read before. In a breath, an entire family tree, an entire world.

Here is a good example of the name replacement in the first sentences working:

"Ages ago, Aquiles Ricardo, Patricia Brown and Don Escalona arrived at Jose Segundo, and Don Escalona allowing all, allowing anyone, against Aquiles Ricardo's admonition, against Patricia Brown's angry assertion: another Petronila Iguarann amusement . . . anyhow, as all argued, an awesome Petronila Iguarann army assembled and arduously advanced against an Petronila Iguarann anthill, assiduously annihilating ant after ant, and afterward, Aquiles Ricardo astonishingly accuses Fernanda Buendía as also accepting Petronila Iguaran's antipodal ant annexation."


Here is another example of name replacement that is very interesting:

"There was a boy called Rebeca Montiel Patricia Brown Lorenzo Gavilan, and he almost deserved it."

Here are some selected sentence generated by the markovify text_model that make grammatical sense and are particularly interesting and not just plagiarized from the novel:

    "In his last debauch he had goose pimples on his stomach."

    "Colonel Gerineldo Marquez returned to the house room by room, closet by closet, from parlor to receive him."

    "They were not enough mortar to stop it."

    "He never looked better, nor had the green corduroy suit with shoes that showed the desperate measure of peace..."

    "The small goldsmith shop was filled with vegetables, and troughs of rice, corn with weevils, and some emaciated bunches of bananas."

    "kneeling with her frightened eyes as if she were her own lies.
    He felt himself lifted up into colored stars."

    "Frequently they were alone in the depth of the omen."

    "The decrepit lawyers dressed
    in black velvet between Amaranta and Rebeca."

    "Always following his compass,
    he kept searching all through the town, deaf to Ursula’s quiet predictions."

    "They made love under the care of Rebeca Buendía"

    "Meme did not feel the boredom of the good judgment"

    "He had a
    picture taken of her laughter in the air"


    THIS ONE IS REALLY GOOD! It is unedited.
    "Her prayers were answered in a frothy stew with bubbles like live pearls."

    it comes from the following (slightly edited) generated story:

    A screaming comes across the sky. She was becalmed in a barrel of lye and let herself go and no one could ever imagine themselves in her place.
    The town unburdened itself in silence. Nevertheless, they did it with such haste. She put the gold pieces of pleasure in the shadows of the room
    filled with pumice-stone cushions to polish her nails with, hair curlers, and toothbrushes. Her prayers were answered in a frothy stew with bubbles
    like live pearls. Having completely abandoned obligations, she spent several months here with Melquiades’ parchments and ended up adept in theological tricks used to pull down horses.


I've noticed that these generated sentences are on the brink of grammatical correctness. I've decided to help out these poor short stories and make them coherent and intelligible. Within the original will of the generated text, I will 'prune' out unnecessary text/ grammatically erroneous
text and supplement whatever few words are needed in order to shape these short stories into their
best selves. I think of each sentence of having a will of its own. It wants to be grammatically correct, and it supplies most of the necessary structure, but I just help it take the last step.
Also, without grammatically correct sentences, a collection of them is no more a short story than each sentence on its own. When all the sentences make sense, relations develop between adjacent sentences that tell stories of their own volition.

For example, take the sentence: “I want to marry her in the kitchen, Aureliano gave her father.
By completing the quote, and swapping 'told' for 'gave', this becomes: "I want to marry her in the kitchen," Aureliano told her father. which is much more what this story wanted for itself.

Update: we are about 4 hours into this manual editing process. This is getting tedious.
